CWE™ is free to use by any organization or individual for any research, development, and/or commercial purposes,
 per these CWE Terms of Use. Accordingly, The MITRE Corporation hereby grants you a non-exclusive, royalty-free license
 to use CWE for research, development, and commercial purposes. Any copy you make for such purposes is authorized on
 the condition that you reproduce MITRE's copyright designation and this license in any such copy. CWE is a trademark
 of The MITRE Corporation. Please contact cwe@mitre.org if you require further clarification on this issue.

DISCLAIMERS
By accessing information through this site you (as “the user”) hereby agrees the site and the information is provided on
 an “as is” basis only without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to implied warranties
 of merchantability, availability, accuracy, noninfringement, or fitness for a particular purpose. Use of this site and
 the information is at the user's own risk. The user shall comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and
 the data source's restrictions, when using the site.

By contributing information to this site you (as “the contributor”) hereby represents and warrants the contributor has
 obtained all necessary permissions from copyright holders and other third parties to allow the contributor to contribute,
 and this site to host and display, the information and any such contribution, hosting, and displaying will not violate any
 law, rule, or regulation. Additionally, the contributor hereby grants all users of such information a perpetual, worldwide,
 non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display,
 publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute such information and all derivative works.

The MITRE Corporation expressly disclaims any liability for any damages arising from the contributor's contribution of
 such information, the user's use of the site or such information, and The MITRE Corporation's hosting the tool and
 displaying the information. The foregoing disclaimer specifically includes but is not limited to general, consequential,
 indirect, incidental, exemplary, or special or punitive damages (including but not limited to loss of income, program
 interruption, loss of information, or other pecuniary loss) arising out of use of this information, no matter the cause
 of action, even if The MITRE Corporation has been advised of the possibility of such damages.


TERM: AITM
DEFINITION: Adversary-in-the-Middle. Formerly MITM.

TERM: Activation Point
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for the location in code at an attacker's "payload" can be executed, i.e., when the attacker has caused the code to violate the intended security policy. For example, in SQL injection, the code reads an input from a parameter (interaction point), incorrectly checks the input for dangerous characters (crossover point), inserts the input into a dynamically generated query string, then sends the query string to the database server (trigger point), then the query is processed by the server (activation point). See the Vulnerability Theory paper for more details.


TERM: Actor
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term that describes an entity that interacts with a product or with other entities, such as a User, Service, Monitor (e.g. IDS), Intermediary, and others.


TERM: Adversary-in-the-Middle
DEFINITION: an adversary who is able to eavesdrop, intercept, and/or possibly modify the communications between two parties by having access to an intermediary system through which communication must flow between the two parties, e.g. an router in between a client and server. Formerly Man-in-the-Middle / MITM.


TERM: Allowlist
DEFINITION: a list or group of characters, strings, patterns, or other elements that is used to identify whether certain data should be allowed or accepted; treated as safe; included; or processed without modification.


TERM: Attack Pattern
DEFINITION: the common approach and attributes related to the exploitation of a weakness in a software, firmware, hardware, or service component.


TERM: Attacker
DEFINITION: an actor who attempts to gain access to behaviors or resources that are outside of the product's intended control sphere for that actor.


TERM: Authentication
DEFINITION: the process of verifying that an actor has a specific real-world identity, typically by checking for information that the product assumes can only be produced by that actor. This is different than authorization, because authentication focuses on verifying the identity of the actor, not what resources the actor can access.


TERM: Authorization
DEFINITION: the process of determining whether an actor with a given identity is allowed to have access to a resource, then granting access to that resource, as defined by the implicit and explicit security policies for the system. This is different than authentication, because authorization focuses on whether a given actor can access a given resource, not in proving what the real-world identity of the actor is.


TERM: Base Weakness
DEFINITION: a weakness that is described in an abstract fashion, but with sufficient details to infer specific methods for detection and prevention. More general than a Variant weakness, but more specific than a Class Weakness. Base level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource. For example the base weakness "Use of Externally-Controlled Format String" (CWE-134) describes an issue (inappropriate action) with a behavior (Use of) taken against a specific resource (Format String) with a given property (Externally Controlled). Another example is "Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory" (CWE-22) which describes an issue (Improper Limitation) with a behavior (control of a Pathname) taken against a resource (Directory) with a given property (Restricted).


TERM: Behavior
DEFINITION: an action that the product takes, typically as implemented in code or as represented by an algorithm. Could also refer to actions by other actors that are not the system.


TERM: Business Logic
DEFINITION: Use of this term is discouraged in CWE. This term is generally used to describe issues that require domain-specific knowledge or "business rules" to determine if they are weaknesses or vulnerabilities, instead of legitimate behavior. Such issues might not be easily detectable via automatic code analysis, because the associated operations do not produce clear errors or undefined behavior at the code level.


TERM: CRUD
DEFINITION: acronym for "Create, Read, Update, Delete," a model for persistent storage of data that is similar to the resource model in vulnerability theory.


TERM: Callable
DEFINITION: an abstract term for a function, method, procedure, etc. that can be explicitly invoked by its name. also known as "Callable Element" (adapted from CISQ)


TERM: Canonicalization
DEFINITION: a behavior that converts or reduces an input/output to a single fixed form that cannot be converted or reduced any further. In cases in which the input/output is used as an identifier, canonicalization refers to the act of converting that identifier. For example, when the current working directory is "/users/cwe," the filename "../xyz" can be canonicalized to "/users/xyz."


TERM: Canonicalize
DEFINITION: to perform Canonicalization.


TERM: Category
DEFINITION: a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. A category is not a weakness, but rather a structural item that helps users find weaknesses that share the stated common characteristic.


TERM: Chain
DEFINITION: a Compound Element that is a sequence of two or more separate weaknesses that can be closely linked together. One weakness, X, can directly create the conditions that are necessary to cause another weakness, Y, to enter a vulnerable condition. When this happens, CWE refers to X as "primary" to Y, and Y is "resultant" from X. For example, in the named chain CWE-691, an integer overflow (CWE-190) can lead to a buffer overflow (CWE-120) if an integer overflow occurs while calculating the amount of memory to allocate. In this case, the integer overflow would be primary to the buffer overflow. Chains can involve more than two weaknesses, and in some cases, they might have a tree-like structure.


TERM: Check
DEFINITION: in the vulnerability theory model of error handling, to examine a resource, its properties, or the system state to determine if they align with the expectations of the product.


TERM: Class Weakness
DEFINITION: a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource. For example the class weakness "Uncontrolled Resource Consumption" (CWE-400) describes an issue (Uncontrolled) with a behavior (Consumption) associated with any type of resource. Another example is "Insecure Storage of Sensitive Information" (CWE-922) which describes an issue (Insecure) with a behavior (Storage) taken against a general type of resource (Sensitive Information).


TERM: Cleanse
DEFINITION: Use of this term is discouraged in names and descriptions for CWE weaknesses, since it has too many different meanings in the industry and may cause mapping errors. It is not precise enough for CWE's purpose. This decision was made in CWE 1.9.


TERM: Cleansing
DEFINITION: This term is discouraged for use in CWE. See "Cleanse".


TERM: Cleartext
DEFINITION: any information that is unencrypted, although it might be in an encoded form that is not easily human-readable, such as base64 encoding. Some people use the "plaintext" term to mean the same thing, but "plaintext" has a more precise meaning within cryptography.


TERM: Composite
DEFINITION: a Compound Element that consists of two or more distinct weaknesses, in which all weaknesses must be present at the same time in order for a potential vulnerability to arise. Removing any of the weaknesses eliminates or sharply reduces the risk. One weakness, X, can be "broken down" into component weaknesses Y and Z. For example, Symlink Following (CWE-61) is only possible through a combination of several component weaknesses, including predictability (CWE-340), inadequate permissions (CWE-275), and race conditions (CWE-362). By eliminating any single component, a developer can prevent the composite from becoming exploitable. There can be cases in which one weakness might not be essential to a composite, but changes the nature of the composite when it becomes a vulnerability; for example, NUL byte interaction errors (CWE-626) can widen the scope of path traversal weaknesses (CWE-22), which often limit which files could be accessed due to idiosyncrasies in filename generation.


TERM: Compound Element
DEFINITION: an Entry that closely associates two or more CWE entries. The CWE team's research has shown that vulnerabilities often can be described in terms of the interaction or co-occurrence of two or more weaknesses.


TERM: Consequence
DEFINITION: a fault - a behavior that is always incorrect if executed, i.e., conflicts with the intended security policy.


TERM: Control Element
DEFINITION: an abstract term for a function, method, procedure, etc. (adapted from CISQ)


TERM: Control Sphere
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for a set of resources and behaviors that are accessible to a single actor, or a group of actors that all share the same security restrictions. This set can be empty. A product's security model will typically define multiple spheres, although this model might not be explicitly stated. For example, a server might define one sphere for "administrators" who can create new user accounts with subdirectories under /home/server/, and a second sphere might cover the set of users who can create or delete files within their own subdirectories. A third sphere might be "users who are authenticated to the operating system on which the product is installed." Each sphere has different sets of actors and allowable behaviors. Vulnerabilities can arise when the boundaries of a control sphere are not properly enforced, or when a control sphere is defined in a way that allows more actors or resources than the developer or system operator intends. For example, an application might intend to allow guest users to access files that are only within a given directory, but a path traversal attack could allow access to files that are outside of that directory, which are thus outside of the intended sphere of control.


TERM: Crossover Point
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for the location in code after which an expected property is violated. This is likely to lead to incorrect actions at a later point. For example, a programmer might use a regular expression to restrict an input string to contain only digits, such as for a telephone number. After applying the regular expression, the string is expected to have the property "only contains digits." If the regular expression is incorrectly specified (e.g., only testing for the presence of a digit anywhere in the string), then after its application, the code reaches a crossover point because the string does not necessarily have the property of "only contains digits." For example, in SQL injection, the code reads an input from a parameter (interaction point), incorrectly checks the input for dangerous characters (crossover point), inserts the input into a dynamically generated query string, then sends the query string to the database server (trigger point), then the query is processed by the server (activation point). See the Vulnerability Theory paper for more details.


TERM: Denylist
DEFINITION: a list or group of characters, strings, patterns, or other elements that is used to identify whether certain data should be denied or rejected; treated as dangerous; removed; or modified before being processed.


TERM: Enforce
DEFINITION: a general term, meaning to check or manipulate a resource so that it has a property that is required by the security policy. For example, the removal of all non-alphanumeric characters from an input is one mechanism to enforce that "all characters are alphanumeric." An alternate method of enforcement would be to reject the input entirely if it contains anything that's non-alphanumeric.


TERM: Entry
DEFINITION: any type of item in the CWE list that has been assigned a unique identifier.


TERM: Equivalence
DEFINITION: a security property in which two identifiers, inputs, resources, or behaviors have syntactically different representations, but are ultimately treated as being the same. For example, in Windows systems, the filenames "MyFile.txt" and "MYFILE.TXT" are equivalent because they refer to the same underlying file object. The inability to recognize equivalence is often a factor in vulnerabilities.


TERM: Explicit Slice
DEFINITION: a Slice whose membership is determined by some external criterion that is represented using HasMember relationships between the view and those entries, but not between entries themselves. An example is CWE-635, which lists the CWE identifiers that being used by NVD.


TERM: Filter
DEFINITION: to perform Filtering.


TERM: Filtering
DEFINITION: the removal of elements from input or output based on some criteria. This term may apply to removal of elements regardless of security implications.


TERM: Graph
DEFINITION: a View that specifies relationships between entries, typically of a hierarchical nature. The root level nodes of the view are specified using HasMember relationships. Children are specified using ChildOf or other relationships.


TERM: Handle
DEFINITION: in the vulnerability theory model of error handling, to modify execution based on the results of a check for an error or exceptional condition.


TERM: ICTA
DEFINITION: Interaction/Crossover/Trigger/Activation, an acronym for the vulnerability theory terms for important locations in code artifacts.


TERM: IP
DEFINITION: Internet Protocol (in networking); Intellectual Property (in hardware)


TERM: Implicit Slice
DEFINITION: a view Slice that defines its membership based on common characteristics of entries, such as weaknesses that can appear in C programs (CWE-658).


TERM: Improper
DEFINITION: used as a catch-all term to cover security behaviors that are either "Missing" or "Insufficient/Incorrect." Note: CWE began adopting this term with CWE 1.2.


TERM: Incorrect
DEFINITION: a general term, used to describe when a behavior attempts to do a task but does not do it correctly. This is distinct from "Missing," in which the developer does not even attempt to perform the behavior. This is similar to "Insufficient." Note: CWE began adopting this term with CWE 1.2.


TERM: Information Exposure
DEFINITION: the intentional or unintentional disclosure of information to an actor that is not explicitly authorized to have access to that information.


TERM: Insecure
DEFINITION: Use of this term is discouraged in names and descriptions for CWE weaknesses. It does not provide any hint about the actual error that was introduced by the developer. Some unreviewed entries may still use this term, although it will be corrected in future versions of CWE. This is a general term used to describe a behavior that is incorrect and has security implications.


TERM: Insufficient
DEFINITION: a general term used to describe when a security property or behavior can vary in strength on a continuous or sliding scale, instead of a discrete scale. The continuous scale may vary depending on the context and risk tolerance. For example, the requirements for randomness may vary between a random selection for a greeting message versus the generation of a military-strength key. On the other hand, a weakness that allows a buffer overflow is always incorrect - there is not a sliding scale that varies across contexts. Note: this this term has been used inconsistently in CWE, although it was more clearly defined beginning in CWE 1.4.


TERM: Interaction Point
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for the point in code from which input is obtained from the external environment. For example, in SQL injection, the code reads an input from a parameter (interaction point), incorrectly checks the input for dangerous characters (crossover point), inserts the input into a dynamically generated query string, then sends the query string to the database server (trigger point), then the query is processed by the server (activation point). See the Vulnerability Theory paper for more details.


TERM: Internal
DEFINITION: used to describe a manipulation that occurs within an identifier or input, and not at the beginning or the end. This term is often used in conjunction with special elements. For example, the string "/etc//passwd" has multiple internal "/" characters, or "<SCRI.PT>" has an internal "." character.


TERM: Invokable Element
DEFINITION: an abstract term, defined to cover the concepts of "named-callable" elements and "method control" elements, as defined by CISQ.


TERM: Leading
DEFINITION: 1) used to describe a manipulation that occurs at the beginning of an identifier or input. This term is often used in conjunction with special elements. For example, the string "//etc/passwd" has multiple leading "/" characters. 2) used to describe the transition from a primary to resultant weakness in a chain


TERM: Loose Composite
DEFINITION: an informal term for describing a CWE entry that the general public thinks of as an individual weakness, but is actually a disjoint list of multiple distinct weaknesses - i.e., a narrowly-defined category. An example of a loose composite is "insecure temporary file" - the temporary file could have permissions problems, be used as a semaphore, be part of a race condition, etc.


TERM: MAID
DEFINITION: Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data. Originating in the early years of CWE, this describes a case in which the developer (and the code) incorrectly assumes that certain data cannot be modified or influenced by an adversary.


TERM: Manipulation
DEFINITION: the modification of a resource by an actor, typically to change its properties. Usually used in the context of software as it manipulates inputs and system resources to ensure that security properties are enforced.


TERM: Method Control Element
DEFINITION: an abstract term for a method that can be explicitly invoked by its name. See "Callable Element" (adapted from CISQ)


TERM: Missing
DEFINITION: used to describe a behavior that the developer has not attempted to perform. This is distinct from "incorrect," which describes when the developer attempts to perform the behavior, but does not do it correctly. Note: this term is being used inconsistently in CWE, although it has been more clearly defined since CWE 1.2.


TERM: Named Chain
DEFINITION: a Chain that appears so frequently that a CWE ID has been assigned to it, such as CWE-680 (Integer Overflow to Buffer Overflow).


TERM: Natural Hierarchy
DEFINITION: the term used in Draft 9 for the Research Concepts View (CWE-1000).


TERM: Neutralization
DEFINITION: a general term to describe the process of ensuring that input or output has certain security properties before it is used. This is independent of the specific protection mechanism that performs the neutralization. The term could refer to one or more of the following: filtering/cleansing, canonicalization/resolution, encoding/decoding, escaping/unescaping, quoting/unquoting, validation, or other mechanisms.


TERM: Neutralize
DEFINITION: to perform Neutralization.


TERM: Node
DEFINITION: an obsolete term for a CWE entry, especially used before CWE 1.0.


TERM: Permissions
DEFINITION: the explicit specifications for a resource, or a set of resources, that defines which actors are allowed to access that resource, and which actions may be performed by those actors. Permissions can contribute to the definition of one or more intended control spheres.


TERM: Pillar Weakness
DEFINITION: the highest-level weakness that cannot be made any more abstract. Pillars are the top-level entries in the Research Concepts View (CWE-1000) and represent an abstract theme for all class/base/variant weaknesses related to it. A pillar is different from a category as a pillar is still technically a type of weakness that describes a mistake, while a category represents a common characteristic used to group related things. For example, Incorrect Calculation (CWE-682) is an example of a pillar, as it describes a mistake but does not imply anything specific about where such a mistake is made or the type of resource that is affected.


TERM: Plaintext
DEFINITION: information that is used as the input to an encryption algorithm, which might contain already-encrypted text. Many people use the "plaintext" term to mean "unencrypted," and others may use "cleartext" to mean the same thing.


TERM: Platform Resource
DEFINITION: a resource that is provided by a platform, e.g., messaging, stream, lock, file, directory, etc.


TERM: Primary Weakness
DEFINITION: a weakness that is an initial, critical error (root cause) that can expose other weaknesses later in a chain.


TERM: Property
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for the security-relevant characteristic of an individual resource or behavior that is important to the system's intended security model, which might change over time. For example, user input is initially untrusted; after the system neutralizes the input, when the input is finally processed, it must be treated as trusted. This illustrates the Trustability property.


TERM: Protection Mechanism
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for a set of behaviors that helps to enforce an implicit or explicit security policy for the product, such as an input validation routine.


TERM: Reliance
DEFINITION: a security-relevant assumption that a resource has a given property, which can lead to weaknesses if that property cannot be guaranteed. For example, an access control protection mechanism might use reverse DNS lookups (CWE-247) in an attempt to limit access to systems in a particular domain; however, this reliance on DNS introduces a weakness because DNS results can be spoofed.


TERM: Resolution
DEFINITION: the process of converting a resource identifier to a single, canonical form. For example, code that converts "/tmp/abc/../def.xyz" to "/tmp/def.xyz" is performing resolution on an identifier that is being used for a file resource.


TERM: Resolve
DEFINITION: to perform Resolution.


TERM: Resource
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for an object or entity that is accessed or modified within the operation of the product, such as memory, CPU, files, or sockets. Resources can be system-level (memory or CPU), code-level (function or variable), or application-level (cookie or message).


TERM: Resultant Weakness
DEFINITION: a weakness that is only exposed to attack after another weakness has been exploited; an early link in a chain.


TERM: SDLC
DEFINITION: Software Development Lifecycle.


TERM: Sanitization
DEFINITION: Use of this term is discouraged in names and descriptions for CWE weaknesses. It has too many different meanings in the industry and may cause mapping errors. It is not precise enough for CWE's purpose. Similar terms in use in CWE may include "Neutralization," "Validation," "Encoding," and "Filtering."


TERM: Sanitize
DEFINITION: This term is discouraged for use in CWE. See "Sanitization."


TERM: Security Policy
DEFINITION: in vulnerability theory, a set of valid behaviors, properties, and resources within the context of operation of a product. The policy is generally implicit (as reflected in the code, or the programmer's assumptions), but it can be explicit.


TERM: Sensitive Information
DEFINITION: Restricted information that should only be accessed by authorized actors. Depending on the context and intended security policy, sensitive information may include secrets such as session identifiers, passwords, access tokens, or cryptographic keys; Personally Identifiable Information (PII) such as email addresses or phone numbers; records or logs of private activities; communications that are expected to be private; etc.


TERM: Slice
DEFINITION: a view that is a flat list of CWE entries that does not specify any relationships between those entries.


TERM: Special Element
DEFINITION: a general term for a sequence of bytes, characters, or words that is used to separate different portions of data within a particular representation or language. The most commonly understood usage of special elements is in single characters, such as the "<" in HTML, which marks the beginning of a tag. As another example, the CRLF (carriage return / line feed) character is used as a separator between headers in MIME messages, so CRLF is a special element. When multi-part MIME messages are constructed, the boundary string becomes a special element. Special elements are often important in weaknesses that can be exploited by injection attacks. A special element in one representation might not be special in another. For example, whitespace is a special element when executing a command in a shell (since it acts as an argument separator), but it has no special meaning in the body of HTML or email messages.


TERM: Sphere of Control
DEFINITION: See "Control Sphere."


TERM: Technology
DEFINITION: Information and Communications Technology (ICT), as defined by Wikipedia: "a broad subject [that] covers any product that will store, retrieve, manipulate, transmit, or receive information electronically in a digital form (e.g., personal computers including smartphones, digital television, email, or robots)."


TERM: Technology-Specific
DEFINITION: applicable to one or more specific classes of Information and communications technology (ICT), instead of a broad range of technologies. See "Technology".


TERM: Trailing
DEFINITION: used to describe a manipulation that occurs at the end of an identifier or input. This term is often used in conjunction with special elements. For example, the string "example.com." has a trailing "." character.


TERM: Trigger Point
DEFINITION: a vulnerability theory term for the location in code after which the software can no longer prevent itself from violating the intended security policy. For example, in SQL injection, the code reads an input from a parameter (interaction point), incorrectly checks the input for dangerous characters (crossover point), inserts the input into a dynamically generated query string, then sends the query string to the database server (trigger point), then the query is processed by the server (activation point). See the Vulnerability Theory paper for more details.


TERM: Unexpected
DEFINITION: violating the assumptions of the developer or operator of the product. This is typically used to describe the state of the product, a behavior that was not intended, or a property of a resource that was not assumed to be present. For example, if an e-commerce program allows a user to specify the quantity of items to purchase, and the program assumes that the quantity will be a number, then the string "abcde" is unexpected. A program crash is usually unexpected behavior. Similarly, when a programmer dereferences a pointer, it is usually unexpected if that pointer can be NULL. Attacks often leverage unexpected properties and behaviors, since the developer has not necessarily provided a sufficient defense.


TERM: Variant Weakness
DEFINITION: a weakness that is linked to a certain type of product, typically involving a specific language or technology. More specific than a Base weakness. Variant level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 3 to 5 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource. For example the variant weakness "Private Data Structure Returned From A Public Method" (CWE-495) describes an issue (inappropriate action) with a behavior (Return) associated with a specific resource (Data Structure) with a given property (Private). Another example is "Use of sizeof() on a Pointer Type" (CWE-467) which describes an issue (Use of) with a behavior (application of a function) against a resource (Pointer) within an implied language (those that support Pointer Types).


TERM: View
DEFINITION: a subset of CWE entries that provides a way of examining CWE content. The two main view structures are Slices (flat lists) and Graphs (containing relationships between entries).


TERM: Vulnerability
DEFINITION: a flaw in a software, firmware, hardware, or service component resulting from a weakness that can be exploited, causing a negative impact to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an impacted component or components.


TERM: Weakness
DEFINITION: a condition in a software, firmware, hardware, or service component that, under certain circumstances, could contribute to the introduction of vulnerabilities.
